Iudwig Goldschmidt born I2, August 1872 written down in November in Stadthagen 1935 sZ, principality of Schaumburg-Lippe in Zurich, my career! Maundy Thursday in 1882 is what I remember: &#39;On this day our father said goodbye. To leave Meimat and his family the following night on Good Friday to take refuge in England. In order to make this escape possible and to keep it secret, which had become necessary, the mother had hidden a number of gold coins in the father&#39;s suitcase and in this way made a written communication unnecessary for the time being - only later did such a communication take place through a cousin&#39;s name Frank in Hanover. The reason for our father&#39;s sudden flight lay in unfortunate business circumstances, caused by the collapse of his livelihood and as a result of poorly kept business books, which made it impossible to get a good overview of the economic situation &amp;age. Everything went under the hammer and only the bare essentials were left to the family, which at the time consisted of 6 children, of whom I was the eldest, while the youngest daughter was exactly one year old. What I remember is that my brother Franz was taken over by the deportees in Salzgitter, Marcus and Rickchen Goldschmidt and subsequently attended school there - the reasons for which he was taken from the circle of his siblings is always unknown to me remained. Since neither side made funds available for the upkeep of the family, - from the father&#39;s eldest brother in Sachsenhagen he? Whenever we were regularly allotted a quantity of potatoes as food, the municipal charity stepped in for us, from which I had to receive a small bag of 5 marks in small coins on Friday afternoons. From the philanthropic side, the Saalfeld family, a small advertisement was placed in the weekly newspaper and asked for charitable donations for an abandoned family of 6 - what success this appeal had, eludes my memory. In any case, it was possible for my mother to run a small peddling business in coffee, tea, cacao and chocolate with shipping from Hamburg and to deliver regularly to well-known families in the area. I was also encouraged to do practical work ,- on the free school afternoons I had to trade in kigder kippers and sprats - and was proud of it - when the contents of a box were sold within a few hours. Since we were always able to offer fresh goods in original boxes and brought them to the public in addition to XEm, the branch of trade grew and fed us in a modest way. More laborious and less grateful for me was the supervision and care of the younger siblings, whom I also had to serve as a cook when the mother was out selling. . E 7 In addition to all these tasks, attending the Realgymnasium required all my very modest physical strength - at the age of 911/2 years I was a student of the Quinta - but was one of the weakest students of the same - my performance was below average . ä } In June 1883, after I was able to travel to Hanover with my mother in March of the same year, where we saw my father again when he returned from England, the joyless time in Stadthagen came to an end and we moved to Wolfenbüttel. 2, sheet For reasons that were not known to me at the time, the small wagon with our modest belongings was officially directed to Hanover, only from here was the address re-addressed to Wolfenbüttel. I have no reason to attribute the collapse to dishonest motives, but rather to youthful, careless actions, which consisted in our father&#39;s political exposure during the Reichstag elections in the spring of 1881. As an active member he belonged to the German Liberal Party and| I have the feeling that financial sacrifices were also made for these purposes| - because during the agitation period large boxes from the USA arrived in the parental home, which contained whole sides of bacon American pork. This salted pork was sold at 35 Pfg per pound, to the | The poorer population, however, was mainly given to the workers in the mines in order to get these circles to cast their votes for the Liberal Party win, - a victory was achieved, - but the business world, which ac | tiv involved was boycotted commercially and consequently g harmed. Our father was Bine&#39;s first and at the same time greatest and hardest victim. Even if the new conditions in Wolfenbüttel were still very modest, - our mother had been relieved of the great burdens after all which the father did the best he could to support his family. e regrettable was and remained the existing tension between our father on the one hand and his siblings on the other hand, as well as with our mother&#39;s siblings - the only exception was between the father&#39;s two youngest sisters and himself. The real reasons are always with me remained secret and the reasons given seemed to me to be insufficiently valid - in any case I regretfully have to admit that this condition has continued to be transplanted| and also took hold of the following generation. Relationships of a family nature, but in a loose form, developed over the years with the Goldschmidt family in Sachsenhagen - but the results were not uniform and concentrated primarily on my brother Franz. The family moved into a modest apartment in Wolfenbüttel of a few rooms in the Brauergildenstrasse, - the father was only on the trip and made the greatest efforts and sacrifices to support his large family. In 1884 brother Franz returned to the family circle, but brother Harry came to the relatives to Salzgitter. In June 1883 I entered the Realschule, this time at the age of II in the sixth year, since attending school in Stadthagen was to be regarded as &quot;lost - here the timetable contained &quot;Latin&quot; as the only foreign language - while the Wolfenbüttel Realschule with French language lessons began.The big age difference and entry during the school year was\|the reason why I was not able to attend the &quot;Samson=School&quot; From youth on, of KEKÄEKAXAKEX weak stature, I could only do it with the exertion of all my strength and energies follow the school lessons, - even if not as the first, so I was not the last to be transferred to a higher school class every year the large workload at that time went fairly smoothly - there were no special incidents during the school years - however, it should not be ignored that the excessive independence of my classmate was criticized to my father as an unfavorable quality. At the age of 15 I left the secondary school in Wolfenbüttel after completing my tertiary. 3. Sheet Now the question of the profession arose - and according to tradition the decision could only be based on the commercial activity, after I had already spent my school days on free afternoons and on Sundays - commercial packaging and expedke@eren, registered mail and bas From finished bills etc. had to settle. It was my mother&#39;s wish that I should find myself in the house of Louis Gräfenberg, Götting near Unterkammen, after a nephew Paul Fraenkel from Hanover had also completed his apprenticeship there. But you didn&#39;t know any more details - and that was unfortunate. On April 20, 1887, my father took me to Göttingen, handed me over and witnessed how I was given 3 arithmetic problems, 2 of which were solved correctly. A great period of suffering and deprivation began the very next day - I had to write a double contract that regulated the apprenticeship between the company on the one hand and my father and I on the other - in addition to a 4-year apprenticeship there was also my father&#39;s education - granted my teachers&#39; right of hunger over me. I protested against this paragraph and wrote to my father that I would not stay if he signed the contract and handed me over to the two brothers. A few days later, the contracts were returned, in which the | ominous paragraph had been deleted - on the other hand, the agreement remained that apprentices were not allowed to keep pocket money - about the smallest amount that had to be demanded from the cash register of the shop was calculation | to give. The owners of the Louis Gräfenberg company, the brothers Louis and Carl, were known to be strict and ruthless - in the eyes of the commercial employees, the company was considered a &quot;bone mill&quot; and it was. The food in the Carl G. family, apprentices had to live in the principal&#39;s house, was very bad - there was not only too little -| but often inedible, - once, every Thursday, there was butter, - otherwise left out with rapeseed oil mixed frying fat and onions. Even the greatest hunger could not eat up the food in the long run - charity was the only salvation to still the hunger and this was shown in the person of the old cook, to whom I confessed my suffering. 3 Every evening between the pillow and the mattress of my primitive encampment there were one or two sandwiches and a few apples. The less the food, - the greater were the demands on work performance, - from Y o&#39;clock in the morning until deep into the night, - from the end of July to December it was rarely over before 100 o&#39;clock, - I&#39;ve had my weak one for over 2 years Constitution endured, - then gastric troubles arose | and as a result of malnutrition, a spinal curvature, which led to the cessation of all activities in June 1889. Sick and miserable, I went to my parents&#39; house after I had been granted a 6-month vacation. I owe the recovery only to the loving care of my mother - the curvature of the spine could not be healed and doctors and lawyers were of the opinion that a return to the service | relatively unthinkable. Father threatened to file a lawsuit against the Gräfenberg company - verbi#®| but remained only_with a violent exchange of letters - cannonade and with the termination of all accounts, - the future looked really gloomy and gloomy for | me out - since the owners refused to issue me a certificate or other certificate. In the meantime I had turned 18 years old -- helpless and helpless - half a cripple. In the year I8%0 I had strengthened myself so much again - the sense of work- was awakened again and thus gained new confidence that I tried - to travel on my own and to achieve success - the attempt was successful - In a town - Burgdorf near Börssum I had gained a good clientele - which I constantly served. 4, sheet For my work in my father&#39;s business I received food and clothing - but nothing else - no pocket money - going to the theater or other intellectual distractions was excluded - going to an inn was forbidden - even playing cards or smoking no speech. In the spring of 1891, my physical condition had improved, a new urge to be active awoke and behind my father&#39;s back I was looking for a new job, ie a new beginning of the apprenticeship I had broken off. In my project I found the support of my mother, who was a good guiding star to me throughout her life and I owe these good qualities to her beyond the grave. I succeeded in the house of N. Gottschalk, Herzogl. Purveyor to the court, Bernburg, a volunteer position with a monthly salary of 50 marks, the commitment letter read u, A, (I had no “eugniss”) I will hire you| with regard to the apprenticeship in the house of Louis Gräfenberg, which I know. nI had set myself an arithmetic problem of the largest format, - to live and live with &amp; Mark :ı 50.- per month,- nothing could be obtained from home| if my mother hadn&#39;t freed me up a few marks a month - but with RM, 60.- I denied everything. (Living room with coffee cost M.I2 per month) . There was nothing left for me - at the same time my brother Franz had to buy his. Did an apprenticeship in Hildesheim. a tuition of M.200.-pa to be paid,- he was the pinny of all the siblings, for whom every sacrifice was made. During their apprenticeship, my brothers Franz and Harry had pensions away from home - ie not with the boss - as was common at the time was common practice. I stayed in Bernburg for a year, during which time I received a Christmas present from M. 10 and a monthly allowance of the same amount, then one day GOttschalk senior called me. to tell me - I could earn more as a result but he couldn&#39;t give more. But he would help me to get a new job,- but I didn&#39;t have to make use of his friendly offer, because of my correct handwriting I got the job of a young bookkeeper at the age of 20 at the M. Stern company , Offenbach with a starting salary of M. 1000.- or M. 83.33 per month,- this amount was never| rounded up, - sickness and disability benefits were deducted. Southern Germany had always been my wish and my hope, now I was happy when I crossed the Main in the 4th class passenger train for the first time in the evening at sunset. For us boys from the north of Germany, beyond the Maine meant &quot;freedom and cosiness&quot;, and I honestly starved for this ser the livelihood, clothing and laundry also shoes and other needs| se,- I could only arrange for a second breakfast on 6 days a month-| the first 3 days a warm sausage (0.15), then only a roll and the rest of the time --- nothing. If I had put everything into the 2, breakfast, @ann one would not have been able to go to the opera in Frankfurt on Sunday - for this each inck., coffee and dinner M, 3, - had to be placed on the high edge, For a rump steak or Viennese roast beef with fried potatoes in Frankfurt plus a pint of beer - together for MI.20 the rest of the time we starved - but that was just nice and carefree. After 6 months there was already M, I00.- then M.I20.- plus a free room and now there was the possibility - to be able to eat one&#39;s fill to one&#39;s heart&#39;s content and to design the cloakroom &quot;Frankfurter&quot; - not like that anymore verbo- world rural, as was the case _ in the north. Humor and lust for life had returned and all bitterness had been forgotten, - but a threatening storm was already rising, - the father complained with his severity of the lack of thrift, - I had eaten my fill and also dressed, - but that&#39;s what he wanted don&#39;t accept it, - my brother Franz, who was also in Frankfurt since 1893, was starving even more with boiled cow meat, but strictly kosher, - came to Offenbach twice a week and ate the Offenbach rump steaks at my expense, for which he saved M.I0 .- monthly which he reported triumphantly to the father, - for that I heard the reproach, - not being able to calculate, - my future will be dark. 5th sheet After one year of activity in Frankfurt, Brother Frang turned his back on this city, not without his boss, Mr. D.Cohn, dismissing him with the words that he was making a mistake - while I remained in Offenbach until October 1894. The monotonous job, first as an accountant and then as a salesman, didn&#39;t suit me in the long run, all the more so since sales were almost exclusively related to the &quot;made-to-measure men&#39;s clothing&quot; department, for which the customers had to deal regularly with collections or as they said in Frankfurt &quot;with the model card&quot; while on the other hand the turnover was achieved by travelers traveling in detail. Friends suggested to me to join the newly founded company in the manufactured goods branch, Mainzer &amp; Brucjfeld in Hanau, - I followed this Guess what, but I found no satisfaction in the long run. The company hired me on the condition that I should succeed in &quot;breaking into&quot; the customer base of the previous company, the attempt ended in a fiasco and a loss of previous sympathies - after barely £ a year of work I pulled - this time -- without notice of AAKKEX, to end up in Würzburg in a roundabout way. When I visited my new company, S. Rosenthal, and when I joined, the head of the company explained to me that there was already a letter from my last company in Hanau, according to which they asked me to be dismissed immediately, since I would resign without notice left position. After explaining the reasons for my actions, I stayed with the company that hired me as a salesman for women&#39;s clothing fabrics and for the trip. This latter activity was intended to fill the so-called idle time during the quiet business months of January through mid-March and July through mid-September of each year. I had to share this obligation with a few colleagues and each of us was given a clearly defined district - I was given Central and Upper Franconia, Swabia/Neuburg and the adjacent eastern part of Württemberg. When I compared the results I had achieved with those that my former colleagues achieved for the M, Stern company in Offenbach, mine could be called more than &quot;modest&quot; and yet they were twice as large as those of my predecessor . The company was satisfied - unfortunately I wasn&#39;t - the intensive travel increased the fixed expenses - I had to use my salary to| place, all the more so since the first hotels were prescribed for me and 95 kilos of luggage were tied to collections. I tried a second tour in the opinion that I could use the experience and catch up with what I had lost - this was partly successful, but overall I was very disappointed. With these disappointments I had also lost the interest in further experiments - I wrote my brother Franz to M. Gladbach - telling him that the manufactured goods - wholesale company Adolf &amp; eo Stern had approached me to set me up. It was the time of the boom, - new foundations grew like mushrooms out of the ground and Franz wrote me his willingness, - I asked i3| to help him because I didn&#39;t have enough money and he sent Mark ; 300.- I made various trips for the purpose of negotiations, advertised, etc. - and when the contracts were to be concluded, - the above-named company went into liquidation, - new disappointments and a few hundred marks were lost. Despondent, I packed my belongings and headed home - without a job and without money. After I had recovered and strengthened myself for a few weeks, a Würzburg cloth shipping company offered to hire me with a monthly salary of M.300 for their existing travel tours. I accepted - but it turned out that the company was completely unknown and far from being a real company - after a few weeks I sent the collection back, received my salary and 6th sheet and with it a capital of M. 200.- I traveled to my friends in Nuremberg in the opinion that I would soon find Stellu@i again, all the more so because at that time, in the summer of I%96, the great Bayr. Landes - exhibition took place. I found a traveling position at the Oettinger house in Nuremberg, Tuche wholesale, but no customers whom I had to visit. Equipped with an advance on expenses, I drew 10s in September with an autumn collection, - I was laughed at, - in Frankfurt they explained to me that the new spring collections are expected in the next few days, - I reported this to my company in Nuremberg , and then some &quot;novelties&quot; were sent to me. Based on recommendations, the good man had the belief that I must be a so-called demigod in sales and be able to free him from his old camp. I was only able to get the &quot;small&quot; collection with &quot;small&quot; people, and they weren&#39;t &quot;prime&quot; enough - in short, -_after about 3 weeks of travel time - I was in Koblenz at the time, when I received it decision to return. Happy and single, I moved &quot;southwards&quot; again across the Main, but still depressed about what will come next, - but one thing was certain, - travel, - no, - never travel again unless the company is first class and introduced is. In October I returned to Nuremberg, where I got to know an older, young lady who ran her father&#39;s business high up in the Franconian Forest, but also had two younger sisters, of whom she spoke highly. Conclusion &quot;Marriage&quot;, - my friends talked to me and I decided! a few months later for a visit - everything was present - because I was invited as a guest. Was it a coincidence - was it a coincidence - I left again - without even having spoken a word - I stayed in correspondence with my younger sister for many months - but I didn&#39;t have the decisive jolt forward can do, - invisible hands held me back. At this point in time, I had already landed in Constance from Nuremberg in November 1896 - I had to enter as quickly as possible, since the company M, Schneider, Stammhaus Aschaffenburg, which was expanding incredibly at the time, opened its branches in many cities in southern Germany for manufactured goods and, by the standards of the time, one brought about a revolution in sales practice, I was given the task of helping the Emil Heim company get on its feet - in view of the new competition, the turnover of the same had jumped back enormously. I went to work with real workaholism, converted the entire company from the ground up to modern conditions and managed to at least stop the setbacks. In the following year 1897 the sales slowly increased again, but &#39;they never reached the original level again - in the year 189é in the autumn I was approached with the intention of taking over the management of a branch business - the result was the Opportunity in Säckingen to acquire or buy the manufactured goods business previously run by S. Pikard. to rent his place. A contract was concluded between me and my boss, the author of which was Dr. Bloch in Constance - I expressly mention the author by name, since the contract could be described as &quot;devilish 2&quot; - he received the passage : Mr G. is entitled to withdraw the monthly amount of M. 200.- from the cash register to cover his needs 7. Sheet At the beginning of September 1898 I opened the Säckingen branch and in the contemporary sense, ie prices for the Sale legible for everyone, modern shop window exhibitions in the same sense as well as the advertisements. Low calculation was made possible by cash sales - the success set in - the sales achieved in a place of 3000 inhabitants reached a sum of over RM 60,000 in the first year Rent of RM, I200 pa At the end of July of the following year, an inventory was made, - my boss demanded a uniform depreciation of 25% from the purchase, - I resisted it, but my objection was in vain, since on the advice of my father I - ters had waived entry in the commercial register - so I was an authorized representative without a say. The result was - a net profit of RM 3000, - which I with my | boss had to share according to the contract - for my work and responsibility I would legally only have M. I25 per month - contractually the right to &quot;take&quot; M. 200 - was not considered fixed property. As a result of an infection that was inflicted on me by the Ruesch miller in Säckingen at his job, I subsequently suffered from a severe skin condition which was treated incorrectly in Säckingen and later in Basel - lasted for a period of 6 months and only found improvement in the spring of I899 through the treatment of Prof. Jacobi in Freiburg/B. However, the consequences of this suffering stayed with me throughout my life and are considered to be the result of my later asbmatic suffering. I had to bear the costs of the lengthy treatment myself - they could not be defrayed with my income. The result was that I owed my company about 2,200 marks based on the interpretation of the contract when I had to give up the position in autumn 1899 - since I threatened to sue, the same was reduced to M, 1300 . In the course of the following 4 years, I had to pay back this sum, which applied exclusively to my recovery, in installments. I parted from Constance in dissatisfaction - the business in Säckingen did not survive long and went before the end of another year. My friends from the men&#39;s clothing company Freund &amp; Cie advised me to take over their Ettlingen branch - a wreck with many obligations, since they had 2 companies of the same kind in place, each under a different flag. Getting this business wreck back on the road was an impossibility, since I was forbidden from any advertising - miracles were expected of me, which I could not fulfil. Since there was a deficit at the end of the year, the long-standing friendship suffered a hole - this rift was artificially deepened through the involvement of my friend&#39;s wife, since her own interests were in play in favor of her brother - this former Jew. Religion teacher became a clothing maker and took my place. I was immediately able to get a job again and went to Limburg / Lahn in November 1900 as a salesman and traveler - the circumstances were primitive but they were real - I would have stayed too if I had perhaps married the somewhat hard of hearing but otherwise well &quot;founded&quot; daughter, but one was suspicious when I asked for a holiday one day. My sister Emma was suffering from diphtheria in Frankfurt at the time and I wanted to look around for her - my young boss thought there was a pretext to get away from him and after my return he gave me an alternative - I was very upset about this and quit my &quot;promising&quot; position. I even rejected an intervention by his mother-in-law - I went to Mannheim to see Emil Helfft, whose wife was a Silberschmidt by birth from Augsburg. It was the man with big plans and a narrow pedestal. The Emil Helfft company in Mannheim was in constant trouble, so I preferred to disappear again as soon as possible. Despite the advice of my friends, I decided to accept a position with the company Baum &amp; Rothschild in Weilburg/Lahn - the owners of this company enjoyed the dubious reputation of great Chioaneurs - with my binding attitude I hoped to break the point of every dispute from the outset. } I had to admit afterwards, - these people were real artists in their field, - they invented and came up with the most crooked ways imaginable and did not shy away from either defamation or brutality. Although I had asked for my immediate release as a result of defamation, they withheld my salary and demanded that I continue to travel. I went and found myself near Altenkirchen in the Westerwald, where I handed over my statement and collections after deduction of my salary up to the end of the coming month to a law firm and my sample case and said “Farewell” in writing. I stayed with a friend in Frankfurt for a few weeks - fell ill with an intense furunculosis and in this condition preferred - to travel silently to Brauj, where my father lived with a sister - I think Sofi. In treatment of Dr.; - I was reinstated in Sternthal a few weeks later and now I remembered - while unpacking my suitcase I happened to come across an older letter from S. Lippmann &#39;Basel&#39; - that this gentleman had existed since 1898 &#39;- we wrote as early as 1902 that I wished to engage in one of his Swiss undertakings. If I&#39;m ever free - that was the content - I should report - I was always free of will and so I reported in a letter to Basel. After just a few hunts, the decision came in, although nothing was free at the moment - he sees my renewed advertising as a certain fate and if I wanted to be content with CHF 175 per month - I should leave. n On April 1, 1902 in the morning I met in the bath. Basel train station with the same feelings that had seized me 10 years earlier at the sight of the city of Frankfurt and the Main - this time I crossed the Rhine. I had it good here in Basel, although I was only partially satisfied with my job - I got by on my modest income - I could pay my taxes regularly and since I had to alternately visit the Zurich and Lucerne branches on and off 10 days deco| I was living on business expenses during this time. I particularly liked Lucerne, not only because of its location, but above all because of its traffic during the spring and summer months, - I recognized that here, - with the exception of a maximum of 2 months (January | February) Annual business was to be done - moreover, the existing confectionery companies were so modestly set up and the price ranges were so high that I already saw my hopes of an existence fulfilled in the distance. After my experiences I had become tired of &quot;conditioning&quot; - I had also reached the age of 30 and longed to work after my own head. In November 1902 I approached Herr Lippmann, myself and my colleague Julius Einhorn to #buy his branch in Lucerne, as it was operating at a loss under the previous management, 7 7 The sale was completed on the condition that we had to take over the business as it stood, ie with assets and liabilities, - unfortunately the latter were more sensitive than I initially assumed as a result of losses in debtors and in the warehouse - obtaining the payments made difficulties in the following years - and here I made a big mistake. Out of exaggerated conscientiousness I refrained from reaching an early agreement on the basis of 50% with the main creditor S. Lippmann - he still got off better than if he had been forced to liquidate his company in Lucerne. Sheet 9 The business situation at Kasernenplatz in Lucerne was not very favourable, - too exposed and away from the actual traffic, nevertheless I managed to double the last annual turnover achieved under the company S. Lippmann and when at the beginning of the .Year I904 offered the opportunity to rent a, who: also heavily neglected salesroom on Weggisgasse - I used my influence for this. The rent was CHF 2,600 pa and at the beginning of April we opened a sales branch, which my pillion passenger Einhorn took over. The business continued to gain in importance, on the other hand, the tension between me and my pillion increased, - his personal| Consumption far exceeded the agreed consumption and endangered the existence of our young company, - we decided to separate In the autumn of the same year I was able to get married, - until further notice, ie from September to February of the following year I managed both businesses, - But then my brother Harry came from Braunschweig came to see me and took over the management of Weggisgasse - at the same time also the decorations in both shops. Only brother Harry lived at my wedding - on his return journey he expressed his wish to me - subsequently also to be able to be s8e* in Switzerland - I was able to fulfill this wish a few months later. In the spring of I908 the rental contract for Kasernenplatz expired and was not renewed - in the meantime the house at Weggisgasse 32 had passed into other hands and a continuation of the contract was uncertain - for this reason a local Pfistergasse I5 (Haus Baer - Weber ) rented. This tenancy soon turned out to be a failure, - sales went down, in addition the neighborhood of the homeowner was unpleasant and harmful in every respect, - the decision to amicably terminate the rental agreement matured, - the homeowner resisted this and so it happened it to a process. The costs and compensation for me amounted to around CHF 10,000, but the restaurant remained closed for 18 months and I finally moved to Weggisgasse after a rental agreement had been concluded for 10 years. Brother Harry left and later found a job with Gebrüder Loeb AG in Bern, where he remained until spring 19II. As a result, all material and physical forces were combined and concentrated solely on the company &quot;Weggisgasse&quot; - the advantages soon became apparent - the turnover increased rapidly, reaching the level of approx. CHF 160,000 as early as I909. the rooms turned out to be too small| and were unhealthy. In the spring of 1910, with the help of the homeowner, Mr. J. Haefliger, the first conversion took place, which also included the first floor for business purposes - the rent was increased to Fr. 7800 pa and in the following years sales reached the second hundred thousand. in 1913 CHF 215,000. In those years the only concern was getting the necessary goods - a Swiss market for ready-made clothing still existed at that time| not, - all goods had to be obtained from abroad. Up to the year 1906 the customs duty on wool was 100%. Ladies confection Fr. 90,- per 100 kilo for cotton confection Fr, 45;- per. 100 kilos, later CHF 150 or CHF 90.00 Collections from various Berlin confectioners were looked at by me in St. Ludwig and there was the condition that other Swiss companies were not allowed to be supplied - this was based on a minimum quantity on the one hand and on the other hand a so-called price protection of the confectionery competitive ability. Purchasing occupied me completely, since at that time the summer months from May to August included were the busiest business months, we constantly required new samples - sales were not officially allowed in Lucerne at that time - there were also so-called cheap sales forbidden. I0. Blatt } X I always maintained good relations with my siblings, encouraged and supported them as far as I was able - an exception in the good relations was made by my brother Franz - who had already founded my branch in Lucerne in January 1903 referred to a careless and irresponsible act, - also later - on the occasion of my engagement and marriage he took an unfriendly and hateful position - he neither answered the letter of introduction of my fiancé at the time - nor did he subsequently show a concede - on the contrary, - he caused the three sisters to join his attitude, which also happened with the exception of the sister Emma. The sisters gave in later, but he remained consistently intolerant until November 1913. By this time his circumstances in Cologne had deteriorated so badly - for some months with a family without existence - that brother Harry took up his person and caused him to come to him in Switzerland with the intention of - looking for a livelihood and find it if possible. At that time I had no idea of these intentions, since I was not informed by anyone - it was only through an indiscretion from my sister-in-law Selma Fränkl in St. Gallen that I found out about Brother F&#39;s presence in St. Gallen. One day Mr. David Neuburger appeared in Lucerne for a visit, I foresaw the intention and declined any conversation by telephone - only after repeated requests from my wife did I agree to listen to his request, which went on to me for mine Using Brother F. I refused with reference to the unfriendly and hateful manner in which he had been practiced towards my family, nor did his character give me any confidence that he would subsequently create a pleasant and beneficial relationship. The joint processing by my wife and Mr. D. Neuburger lasted more than 2 hours in order to make me &quot;more inclined&quot; - unfortunately I became weak and the attack was successful. From that hour on, the silent sufferings began, from which I had to perish spiritually. A work begun with great hopes and a livelihood built up with a great deal of diligence and work was systematically undermined. During the years 1914 and 1916, sales fell by half - losses occurred, which were compensated to some extent in the following years - but increased concerns and hardships as a result of currency devaluation Battle brought, - only the German years of infatuation temporarily brought relief. As a result, the lack of working capital on the one hand and the intensified competition on the other hand due to mutiny establishments and expansions - in order not to fall completely behind, I played the last trump card out of desperation and let my business premises through in the winter of 1921/22 Enlarge the conversion again. Sales had increased in the years 1920/2I1 from CHF 360,000 to CHF 480,000 and remained at around CHF 500,000 until autumn 1923. Suddenly an elementary decline set in, the course of which I could never explain - I was relying only on combinations - the extent to which these could be based on facts must remain conjectures forever, since the stimulators and instigators do not want to have a say. Accusations, self-accusations, illnesses, slander have created further destructive power and the result was the mental, physical and material collapse. As a poor, battered and disappointed person, I end my life with no hope of recognition and thanks. Learning from human mistakes and shortcomings is the purpose and task of my writing - may it be guiding for my children and grandchildren. Beware of false traditions - one last word on this: our father warned us as adults never to be entered in a commercial register - why - he hadn&#39;t said that - I researched - my brother Franz obeyed - me knew why - he had to be officially asked to be registered in Zurich - after his death - a repetition of this incorrectly recorded tradition.