During the illness of my brother Franz Goldschmidt, his relatives took the opportunity, on the part of Mr. Willy Meyer, Zurich, to withdraw from the obligations he had assumed and subsequently to reduce them by half. However, these obligations were tacitly discontinued after the expiration of a year after the death. There was no longer any legal obligation. This condition also seems to have caused my brother Harry to avoid his obligations as much as possible. This was not entirely possible as there are legal obligations. Legal conditions exist in the amount of the monthly benefits and that on the basis of the taxable income. To date, I have not resorted to it, although there was reason to do so. The health as well as the general economic situation made the living conditions increasingly difficult. By the end of 1933, my income from work had reached between CHF 2,500 and CHF 3,000 pa In the years that followed, it fell to just as many centimes. Some time ago, ie in the course of 1936, I was told that my sister-in-law found a letter from my brother Franz among the writings left behind, which contained serious insults against him. She would use this document as an opportunity to prove to her children how mean my heart was. Should the above project come true and I have no doubts about the intention, then I hereby declare the act to be an infamy, in accordance with the truth. I had to write a letter to my brother in 1923 after he slandered a family friend of mine without any reason or cause and categorically forbade me to have any friendly dealings with them. I have taken a stand against this and in the said letter forbade any interference in my private affairs. And if, as before, he should go on teasing and insulting me, I would have to defend myself by having him described as a troublesome foreigner and demanding his expulsion. This threat - I would never have carried out an act - should above all give me peace of mind from his downright impertinent letters. But she has created positive things for my brother's family. He became aware of circumstances that he had not previously known or to which he had paid too little attention - he now took the opportunity to do everything in his power to acquire Swiss citizenship. So in reality my threat had only brought him good - because seen from the point of view of the events of the following 10 years, in this case, as in his previous life, he had once again had the famous "dizziness". This self-awareness was the greatest asset in his life - he allowed himself to be pushed by the circumstances and ended up doing well with it - it didn't play any role for Franz Goldschmidt; with rudeness or, as a Zurich textile salesman put it, with downright sadistic malice. In the writings I have written so far, I have mainly given reports, ie described facts - but I have refrained from any criticism. But since my deceased brother's family is not willing to give up from time to time, I no longer exercise restraint and go on the attack. For this purpose, a few particularly crass cases from my life shall prove that the glorious words which were spoken and written to order at the death of my brother were undeserved and showed in a conspicuous manner the tendency to be used in publicity. Critical words from third parties such as "from the sublime to the ridiculous is just one step" were followed by an older, very religious lady: "I never knew that the deceased was said to have had such good qualities - one always heard the opposite." Quite apart from the fact that, contrary to my intention in November 1913, I was influenced to use my good offices to obtain a livelihood and in a sense became obligatory for the future, I subsequently found brutal treatment for my efforts. FG refused to work with me the moment he set foot on Swiss soil. He only agreed to mutual "proper conduct", but even that was subsequently lacking. The clash in Berlin in the autumn of 1922 and the brusque treatment I was treated with went beyond any measure of commercial manners - quite apart from brotherly gratitude. My years of preparatory work, my often dearly paid experience in the new industry of ready-made clothing on a popular basis, faced my brothers, who came from the men's ready-to-wear and carpet industries, without making any sacrifices. They had become the beneficiaries from the first moment. The animosity my brother Franz always showed me, his attitude when I settled in Switzerland in 1902, my establishment in Lucerne, my marriage in October 1904 in connection with the death of our father in July 1903, the ban on our sisters, to correspond with me are typical signs of a pathological condition, if not of "stubborn brain". This picture is completed by his behavior in 1915 towards the owner of the company Mardel SA in Geneva. From whom he first received a ready-made offer in Zurich, after Weiss' recommendations he only gave up his brother Harry in St. Gallen and kept quiet about my existence in Lucerne. From this fact one could draw the conclusion that FG must also have been a mentally retarded person, since such deeds will come to light one day. In private matters, too, he took every opportunity to put me in a so-called "unfavorable light" so that what was personal would shine all the brighter and more beautiful. When I got into financial difficulties in the summer of 1925 as a result of a sudden drop in my business turnover, caused by slander from the trade association of the city of Lucerne, Brother Harry approached me on behalf of Franz to offer me their good offices. These services should consist of winning the common Berlin suppliers for me in a favorable sense. For this purpose a list of them was desired. What actually happened? During their shopping trip to Berlin, these companies were systematically "avoided" in order to avoid the danger that they could keep themselves as harmless as possible. On my subsequent trip for the purpose of negotiations I met with a many faceless refusal. This is what good offices looked like in reality. After the arrangement had been completed and the changeover to the new, smaller economic basis had been completed, my relatives urged me to repay the unsolicited guarantees of around CHF 40,000 from my brother Harry. In reality, the suppliers had suffered almost no loss as a result of the guarantees, so my situation had not improved, but had deteriorated. That from my brother-in-law David Neuburger to Dr. A promise made to Martin Bloch, Zurich, that he would consider founding a company after graduation came to nothing. After a lapse of barely 3 years, the stated sum was paid back partly in cash and partly in goods plus interest. My economic situation, combined with poor health and reduced ability to work, had become increasingly insecure. In addition to these difficulties, my credit was cut off in 1923, caused by my brothers joining forces to buy goods together, with me completely excluded. I was thus condemned to economic death and my brothers consequently became my inhibitors. That is the tragedy of my life, which was filled with the thought of helping my homeless brothers to create a livelihood for them. Her deed was reassured by the thought of offering me alms of CHF 200 a month, which my son-in-law should also share in, which he refused for characterful reasons. It went against my innermost feelings to accept this "Danaer gift" and I decided, obedient to necessity, not to my own instinct, with the funds left to me from the liquidation and those of my wife, to open a small lingerie shop in Zurich. Unfortunately I couldn't keep up with the competition, the expenses were too high and the turnover too small. I was also lied to by the previous owner and house owner Rubinstein Rennweg 24 and consequently cheated. Today I am a poor and defeated man. Sorrow and worry have taken hold and I only wish for a speedy, painless end. My wish for my brothers and their families is that they never regret what they did to their eldest brother to thank them for their support. As a final word, I will try to draw and condemn myself in order to understand in this way the attitude of my brother Franz G. - who was an outspoken pedant - towards me. It may be that from a strictly commercial point of view he condemned my act of "going self-employed". Certainly I was daring. But I wasn't careless. I had confidence. I renounced friendships and protection. I could work, I could save and I could do without. How I traveled to Berlin with a cash register of 50 francs to buy goods for a few thousand marks, lodged in a hotel on Poststrasse for RM 2.50 per night and returned to Switzerland after 3 days just an example. A monthly salary of CHF 200 was suspended for my personal needs. I didn't need them. Since the ritual food became too expensive for me, I received a pension (3 meals) at CHF 60 per month. I started the acquired business with big losses. I would have closed them out in the manner described above. I was able to double my turnover in the first financial year and to reach CHF 1,100,000 in the second financial year. I was proud of my work, but also proud of my achievements. My good nature combined with great optimism, as well as the influence of my religious, but not always clever wife, have led me to economic ruin after 27 years of work. At the end of my life, I call out to my heirs and friends: "Make sure the truth is spread and avenge the wrong that has been done to me." This is the wish of your father and friend. Zurich in January 1937. After my severe attack of bronchitis, the second in eight weeks, I have recovered. But the tracks make themselves felt longer this time. Added to this are the numerous, disturbed nights in which mental torment tortures the brain. From this mood I would like - before the 5th decade of the 20th century begins - to write down my thoughts and last wishes. A few years have passed since my last writing - my career. New years of suffering and suffering began, because with the mental relapse of my eldest son Herbert and his placement in the "Burgholzli" clinic and, after a year, in the Kilchberg sanatorium, new worries of a material nature began. Today this son , since May 1938, at home. While the mental distress has improved modestly, concern has remained as there is no possibility of finding a job or occupation that would suit his disposition. His attitude is and remains negative. I owe my infinite gratitude to my son-in-law Jos Csuka, who granted my request for official guardianship. It is up to him to do what I have been promised after my death: to house his ward if the circumstances have not fundamentally changed in a beneficial way by then. May my son-in-law be given strength and insight to carry out the difficult but honorable office in the spirit of noble humanity. My means were sacrificed in earlier years for the benefit of my children, their education and their preservation. Illnesses in the family devoured further considerable sums. I don't own anything anymore. The year 1929 came to an end full of sorrows and after only a few weeks in the new year 1930 new suffering came upon me. At the end of February my youngest son Ernst suddenly fell ill in his position in Olten and around mid-March he began to languish as a result of liver disease. I have compiled dossiers on Herbert and Ernst Goldschmidt, the content of which is explained in an exhaustive manner, where something was missing and what later generations may regard as groundbreaking. When this purpose is achieved, namely learning from suffering, then all the storms of life have not been able to prematurely destroy my sick but resilient body, nor have they clouded my spirit. With an indomitable will and a joyful heart, I accepted my son-in-law's offer to enter his service and take over the clerical duties. Since August 1937 I have been doing daily work and only miss my duty when my old illness makes any activity impossible for days. The work was and still is a need for me. I am interested in working on and dealing with questions of a commercial nature and I hope that, despite my 68 years, I may still be able to continue my usual job for a few more years. In connection with my statements today, I do not want to keep what I wrote earlier, but rather supplement them and add a so-called "last request" to my wishes. I wasn't raised in a religious sense. Due to the lack of a Jewish community in Stadthagen, there was no religious instruction for the youth. But since in Germany at that time it was compulsory to take part in religious instruction, my father made the decision to attend one of the Protestant-Reformed Church. I was assigned to this class until I was 11 years old. When my parents moved to Wolfenbüttel in June 1883, I also took part in Jewish lessons. But the prayer leader, whose home was east of the Vistula, gave it in such a primitive way that one day I commented on his explanation: "That's not true!" Since I was generally a very tolerant student, actual cheekiness was unknown to me. My remark must have sprung from elementary indignation. In short, upon notification by the teacher, the representatives of the Wolfenbüttel community decided that I should be removed from the classroom. I spent the next few years without religious instruction, and the strength and will to not hold back and at least to emulate the others in morality and moral leadership grew in me. So the day was approaching when the coming of age is celebrated. The maternal intercession succeeded in changing the heart of the Jewish teacher I had offended and by purchasing prayer books and other necessary items from him, the purpose was achieved and the day of honor was quiet and very modest, but according to tradition, coming to an end. Despite my poor Jewish education, I have never denied my affiliation with Judaism. In later years I read Jewish history avidly and received and absorbed a great deal of respect for the moral, moral and ethical content. I take on anyone, even if I fall behind in the traditional and ritual sense of sin. It was never my ambition to catch up. This attitude leads me to ask that after my death I will not issue a certificate that I do not deserve. I was not a religious person in the sense of Jewish teaching. I could not be a benefactor to humanity because I lacked not the will but the ability. Nor could I be a help to those who stood "in the shadows". My striving was to be a helper in need and an adviser in a good sense; I was only able to serve my brothers and a few relatives in this sense. I also had no debt of gratitude in the truest sense of the word to the two famous old aunts. If I still thought of her without obligation, it was only temporarily and to a modest extent. What I have done towards my own family deserves no special credit. I see my job as a moral and ethical duty. Whether I have completely fulfilled this, I cannot judge. In any case, my tremors offer no material for an obituary of any kind. I have only one request to everyone who has done me good in life: grant me peace and quiet. Nobody needs to mourn or grieve for me. Everyone fulfills his duty in the work of the day. As a businessman, I took over the guiding principle from my father: "Do right, don't be afraid of anyone!" I believed in him. During the first 10 years, from 1903 to 1913, I lived satisfied and even happy years, albeit with worries, but with visible success. At that time I was alone in my profession and my existence. Success made me generous, and this quality was greatly encouraged by my first wife. Unfortunately, the disappointments did not stay away, but the hopes that were set did. The consequences of this were the mental breakdown, which was followed by all the hardships of the past 20 years. In the spring of 1929, the insult was added to the coronation. The Franz Goldschmidt Zurich company found it appropriate to celebrate its 25th anniversary without saying a single word to the man to whom it owes its existence. I know no hate nor envy, but I believe firmly and unshakeably in justice. May the day not be too far away. This is my wish, which I express as a farewell. Special thanks from the bottom of my heart I dedicate to my dear, incomparably good wife, who was no effort and no sacrifice too much to stand by my side in the countless nights of suffering for decades. She couldn't help me, but she stuck with me and I'll never shake the feeling that she suffered with me. Thank you so much to everyone who has done me good in life. Unfortunately, I cannot forgive those who have caused me and my family much sorrow and suffering through envy, slander and craving for recognition. Farewell everyone. Zurich, late November 1940. To my near and dear ones: On Tuesday, November 23, 1940, shortly before 1 p.m., Mr. Robert Goldschmidt, son of my deceased brother Franz Goldschmidt, appeared at the intersection of Pelikan-Bahnhofstrasse, coming from the direction of his business , in my way without taking any notice of me. With his head held high and a dose of arrogance and a stone face, he let me pass. Neither anger nor indignation took hold of my senses, but pity for the victim of the hatred that his father always preached and lovingly immortalized by his mother against me first and foremost and then also against my relatives, especially my children. From the mentally normal point of view, there is not the slightest reason for this hateful attitude, as I have described in earlier statements. My brother Franz's attitude towards his mother and his siblings was morbid even in his youth. He was a so-called loner. His emotional life was also abnormal. From the point of view of education, he was considered difficult to train and stubbornly obstinate, a phenomenon that might today be described as psychopathological. He wasn't particularly smart nor talented, but he was sneaky and mischievous. He was responsible for his actions. His almost innate criticisms and accusations were not always fully accepted, but they could escalate to such an extent that even the most patient could lose their calm. It was the same in the spring of 1923. At that time, too, his accusations against me increased in a number of letters to such an extent that one day he demanded that I give up my previous friendly relations with the Siegmund Guggenheim family in Basel. He did not give any obvious reasons. I responded to this arrogance in such a way that I subsequently forbade his letters - should they nevertheless appear again, then I would be forced without further ado to have a complaint brought in which I would call him an annoying foreigner and then request his expulsion. This was just a threat. It was brought to my attention a few years ago that Ms. Fanny Goldschmidt is said to have found this letter among the estate and brought the same distorted content to her children's attention. The resulting hatred is probably the eternal thanks that Franz Goldschmidt assured me in November 1913 over a cup of coffee in the "Passage Café" after I had opened the way to his existence. He also asked me if I wanted to bury the earlier "old camels". Good-naturedness turned out to be stupid in this case as well, but it doesn't change the facts.