While my brother Franz Goldschmidt was ill, his relatives took the opportunity to withdraw from the obligations assumed, which were presented at the creditors' meeting of my company in January 1930 on the part of Mr. Willy Meyer, Zurich, and subsequently to reduce them by half ,- but to tacitly discontinue the same after a year has elapsed after death. Legally there was no longer any obligation - this situation also seems to have prompted my brother Harry to evade his obligations as best as possible - this was not possible completely, since there are legal obligations. Legal conditions exist in the amount of the monthly benefits, namely on the basis of the taxable income - until today I have not resorted to it, although there would have been reason to do so. The health as well as the general economic condition made the living conditions increasingly difficult - by the end of the year 1933 my income through work reached approx. CHF 2500 to CHF 3000 pa in the following years the same dropped to the same many centimes. Some time ago, ie during the course of 1936, I was told that my sister-in-law found a letter from my brother Franz among the scriptures left behind by my brother Franz, which contained serious insults against him and she would use this document as an occasion take, to prove to their children, of what, base disposition I Sel. Should the above project come true and I have no doubts about the intention, then I hereby declare the act to be a wicked act in accordance with VW truth. I had to write a letter to my brother in 1923 after he slandered a family friend of mine without any reason or cause and categorically forbade me to have any friendly dealings with them. I have taken a stand against this and in the said letter forbade any interference in my private affairs - and if he should continue to schoolmaster and offend me, as b9 did, I would have to defend myself by calling him an annoying foreigner and to demand his expulsion. This threat - I would never have carried out an act - should above all give me peace of mind from his downright impertinent letters, but it actually did something good for my brother's family. d He became aware of circumstances that he had not previously known or to which he had paid too little attention - he now took the opportunity to do everything in his power to acquire the Swiss citizen certificate. So in reality my threat had only brought him good things - because seen from the point of view of the events of the following 10 years, in this case, as in his previous life, he had once again had the famous "dizziness". This self-knowledge was the big actüävum in his life - he let himself be pushed by the circumstances and ended up doing well with it - it didn't play any role for Franz Goldschmidt; with rudeness or, as a textile salesman from Zurich put it, with sadistic wickedness. eng 2, Blatt In my writings so far I have mainly reported, ie described facts, - but I have refrained from any criticism - but after the family of my deceased brother is not prepared to give any ﬁndings from time to time, I no longer exercise restraint and leave to attack. For this purpose, a few particularly crass cases from my life shall prove that the glorious words which were spoken and written to order at the death of my brother were undeserved and showed in a conspicuous way the tendency to be used in publicity. Critical words from a third party like ; "From the sublime to the ridiculous is just one step," said an elderly, very religious lady; I never knew that the deceased should have had such good qualities - one always heard the opposite ", Quite apart from the fact that, contrary to my intention, in November I9I13 I was influenced to use my good offices to obtain an existence - and in a certain sense became obligatory for the future, I found my commitment to be brutally treated as a result. FG refused to work with me the moment he had set foot on Swiss soil - he only declared himself to be mutually correct Behavior "ready" - but even this was lacking as a result. The collision in Berlin in the autumn of 1922 and the brusque treatment that was offered to me exceeded every measure of commercial morality - quite apart from brotherly gratitude. 4years of preliminary work, I think, often My brothers, who came from the men's ready-made clothing and carpet industries, faced the expensively paid experience of the new branch - ready-made clothing on a popular basis - without making any sacrifices - they had become beneficiaries from the first moment. The animosity that my brother Franz always showed me, - his attitude on the occasion of my settlement in Switzerland in 1902, - my establishment in Lucerne, my marriage in October 1904 in connection with the death of our father in July 1903, the ban on ours Sisters, to correspond with me are typical signs of a pathological condition, if not a "stubborn brain". This picture is completed by his behavior in 1915 towards the owner of the company Mardel SA, in Geneva,- by whom he first received an offer in confectionery in Zurich - after Vweißer recommendations only gave up his brother Harry in St. Gallen and kept quiet about my existence in Lucerne. From this fact one could draw the conclusion that F", G, must also have been a mentally handicapped person - since such deeds will come to light one day - even in private matters he took every opportunity to get around me to put in a so-called " unfavorable light, so that one's own shines all the brighter and more beautiful. When in the summer of 1925, as a result of a sudden drop in my business turnover, caused by defamation by the trade association of the city of Lucerne, the court declared that it was not responsible for the assessment (excuse) formally permissible but legally untenable, and I got into financial difficulties Brother Harry to me on behalf of Franz 'to offer me their good offices. These services should consist of winning the common Berlin suppliers for me in a favorable sense - for this purpose a list of them was desired. What happened in reality? - these companies were systematically "avoided" during their shopping trip to Berlin in order to avoid the risk that the same could hold themselves harmless as far as possible. During my later trip for the purpose of the negotiations, I met with four-sided rejection - this is what the good offices looked like in reality. After completion of the arrangement and conversion to the new, reduced economic basis, I was urged by my relatives to repay the unsolicited guarantees for me from my brother Harry in the amount of approx. Fr B Ü R E i HLE 3. Blatt, the suppliers had suffered almost no loss due to the guarantees and my situation had therefore not improved, but had deteriorated. That from my brother-in-law David Neuburger to Dr. A promise made to Martin Bloch, Zurich, that he would consider founding a G after completion, came to nothing. After a lapse of barely 3 years, the sum mentioned was repaid partly in Baar, partly in goods plus interest - my economic situation had become more and more uncertain in connection with poor health and reduced ability to work. In addition to this difficulty, my credit was cut off in 1923, caused by the fact that my brothers, with the complete exclusion of me personally, joined forces to buy goods together. I was thus sentenced to economic death and my brothers became my henchmen as a result - d# is the tragedy of my life, which was filled with the thought of helping my homeless brothers to create a livelihood for them. Her deed was calmed by the idea of offering me alms of CHF 200 a month, which my son-in-law should also share in, which he refused for reasons of character. It contradicted my innermost feelings to accept this "Danaer gift" and I decided, obeying the necessity - not my own instinct with the remaining funds from the liquidation and those of my family, to open a small lingerie shop in Zurich. Unfortunately, I wasn't up to the competition - the expenses were too high - the turnover too small - I was also lied to by the previous owner and house owner Rubinstein Rennweg 24 and consequently cheated. Today I am a poor and defeated man, - grief and worry have found their way and I only wish for a quick, painless end. I wish my brothers and their families that they may never feel regret about what they did to their eldest brother to say thank you for their support. As a final word, I will try to characterize and condemn myself in order to understand in this way the attitude of my brother Franz G., who was an outspoken pedant, towards me. It could be that he condemned my action of "self-employment" from a strictly commercial point of view - certainly I was daring - but I wasn't careless - I had self-confidence - I renounced friendships and protection - me could work, could save and spare. Like me with a cash register of francs ; 50,- traveled to Berlin to buy goods for a few thousand marks, stayed in a hotel in the Poststrasse for RM 2.50 per night and returned to Switzerland after 3 days is just one example. _ For my personal needs, a monthly salary of CHF 200 was suspended, - I didn't need it, - since the ritual food became too expensive for me, I received a pension (3 meals) at CHF 60 per month . I started the business taken over with large losses - I would have closed them out in the above-mentioned manner - it was possible for me to double the turnover in the first business year and in the second business year to reach the sum of CHF I100,000. ?I was proud of my work but also proud of my successes - my good nature combined with great optimism, plus the influence of my religious but not always clever wife brought me economic downfall after 27 years of work. At the end of my life I call out to my heirs and friends; "Make sure the truth is spread and avenge the injustice that was done to me. This is the wish of your father and friend; Zurich in January 1937 Kitte December 2939 Entry on my previous statements & Sinew had a severe attack of bronchitis - the second one within 8 weeks I again crossed the sands, - but the traces can be felt for longer this time, - in addition there are the numerous, peaceful nights in which mental joy tortures the brain. Out of this mood I want \aveum, - before the 5th century of the 20th “The century begins, never to write down my thoughts and last wishes, since I last wrote them down - my career - and a few years have passed - new years of suffering and suffering - because with the emotional relapse of my eldest son Herbert and his accommodation - ment to Kant, Meilanetalt "Burgholzli" and after a year to the Kilchberg sanatorium, new worries of a material nature began. Today this son has been at home since May 1938, although the emergency situation has improved grained in a modest way - but the concern has remained, since there is no possibility - to find a job, another 'activity that would correspond to his disposition ", his zest position is and remains negative. I owe unlimited thanks to my son-in-law Jos, Csuka, who complied with my wish to assume official guardianship. It is up to him after my death to do what I am destined to accommodate his ward “if the circumstances there are not right have fundamentally changed in a beneficial sense. May my son-in-law be granted strength and vision to carry out the difficult but honorable office in the sense of noble humanity - my means were sacrificed in earlier years for the benefit of my children 'their education and care - diseases in the family devoured further, well-known sums, - I own nothing more. The year 19237 came to an anxious end and after only a few years 4ea in the new year 1930 new suffering approached me - at the end of February my youngest son suddenly fell ill in his position in Olten - in order to languish in mid-March from the consequences of a liver disease. I have created dossiers for Herbertt and Zrnet Goldschmidt, the content of which attempts to explain in an exhaustive manner where something has gone wrong and what later generations may regard as groundbreaking - then the purpose has been achieved that intends with it: learning from Suffering D All the storms of life were not able to prematurely destroy my sick, but still resistant body, - nor cloud my spirit well, - with indomitable will and a joyful heart I accepted the offer of my son-in-law - to work in his service 8 Since the month of August 1937 I have been doing daily work and only miss my duty when my old illness makes any activity for days impossible. L ; — ı * 2, sheet The work was and still is a need for me, dealing with and dealing with questions of a commercial nature are of interest to me and I hope that, despite my 68 years, I still have a few more years of usual employment may be granted. In connection with my presentation today, I would like to add to what was written earlier, and add a so-called "last request" to my wishes; I wasn't brought up in the religious sense - due to the lack of a Jewish community in Stadthagen, I didn't give any religious instruction for young people in 28, but since in Germany at that time there was a compulsion to take part in religious instruction, it hit me Father made the decision to take part in one of the Protestant - Reformed Churches. I was in this class up to my 1l1. years of life allocated. When my parents moved to Wolfenbüttel in June 1883, I also took part in Jewish lessons, but the prayer leader, whose home was east of the Vistula, taught them in such a primitive way that I would one day join his Statements that made the remark: "That's not true! Since I was generally a very tolerant student, actual impudence was unknown to me, my remark must have come from elementary indignation - in short, - on the notification of the teacher decided that Representatives - College of the Wolfenbüttel community I spent the following years without religious instruction, all the more I had the strength and the will not to back down and to at least equal the others in morals and moral leadership 80 because the day came The maternal intercession succeeded in changing the heart of the Jewish teacher I had insulted, and by purchasing prayer books and other necessary items from him, the purpose was achieved and the day of honor was running out quietly and very modestly, but according to tradition. Despite my poor Jewish education, I have never denied my affiliation with Judaism - I read Jewish history eagerly in later years and received a high regard for the moral, moral and ethical content and absorbed it - I take it is it up to anyone, even if I fall behind in the traditional and ritual sense, to catch up? was never my ambition. From this attitude, I ask that after my death I do not want to issue a certificate that I do not deserve, - I am not a religious person in the sense of the jewish teaching, - I could not be a benefactor to mankind, because I lacked not the will, but the ability - even those who *. "Standing in the shadows" I could not be a helper. 5latt helper in need and advisor in a good sense was my striving. I could only serve my brothers and a few relatives in this sense - I also had the famous two old aunts not to pay off a debt of gratitude in the sense of the wordc-if I still thought of her without obligation, it was only temporarily and in a modest way.What I did to my own Jamilie deserves no special recognition-I consider my task as a moral duty, - whether I am completely fulfilled, - I cannot judge, - in any case, my earthly tremors do not offer any material for an obituary in any form. I have only one request to all those who have shown me good things in life, - grant me the peace and quiet, - no one needs to mourn or grieve in me, - everyone fulfills his duty in the work of the day, I took over from my father in the capacity of merchant Principle : Be cheeky, shy nobody! i believed in him I lived satisfied and even happy years, even if with worries, but with visible successes during the first 10 years, from 1903 to 1913 - at that time I was alone in my profession and my existence - success made me broad-minded and this KX property was encouraged as far as possible by my wife. Unfortunately, the disappointments did not stay away, but the hopes that were set - the consequences of this were the mental breakdown, which was followed by all the hardships of the past 20 years. The insult was crowned in the spring of 1929 - the Franz Goldschmidt Zrben company found it appropriate to celebrate the anniversary of its 25th anniversary - without even saying a word to commemorate the man to whom it owes its existence . I know _no hate nor envy, but I firmly and unshakably believe in justice, - may the day not be too far away, 'that is my wish, which I say as farewell. Special thanks from the deepest #Harzen I dedicate to my dear, incomparably kind wife, who £6@no troubles and no sacrifices were too much to help me in the countless nights of suffering for decades - she couldn't help me, but she endured with miryr and I will never shake the feeling that she suffered with me. Thank you - many thanks to everyone who has done me good in life - unfortunately I cannot forgive those who have caused me and my family a lot of grief and suffering through envy, slander and the urge to show off. Farewell, A1l1le. /%W z Zurich at the end of November 1940 To my nearer and further relatives ] On Tuesday, November 23, 1940 kKshortly before 1 p.m., Mr. Robert Goldschmidt, son of my deceased brother Franz Goldschmidt, appeared at the intersection of Pelikan and Bahnhofstrasse, coming from the direction of his business in my way without taking any notice of me. He let me pass with his head held high mixed with a dose of arrogance and with a stony expression on his face. Neither anger nor indignation took hold of my senses, but pity for the victim of the hatred that his father always preached and lovingly immortalized by his mother against me, first and foremost, and then also against my relatives, especially my children. As I have described in earlier statements, from a mentally normal point of view, there is not the slightest reason for this hateful attitude - but my brother Franz's attitude towards his mother and towards his siblings was already pathological in his youth - he was a so-called loner. His emotional life was also abnormal - from the point of view of upbringing he was considered difficult to educate and stubbornly obstinate - a phenomenon which today one would perhaps describe as psychopathological - he was neither particularly clever nor gifted, but behind his back - tig and mischievously, - he was to be made responsible for his actions. His 'one would almost like to say, inborn criticism and accusations were not always taken fully seriously, but they could escalate to such an extent that even the most patient could lose their calm. It was like that in the spring of 1923, - even then, his accusations against me increased in a number of letters to such an extent that one day he demanded that I give up the previous friendly relationship with the Siegmund Guggenheim family in Basel - reasons he did not specify in a plausible way. . I responded to this arrogance in such a way that I subsequently forbade his letters - should they nevertheless appear again - then I would be forced without further ado to file a complaint in which I would describe him as a nuisance would designate foreigners and then demand his expulsion. This was just a threat. It was brought to my attention a few years ago that Ms. Fanny Goldschmidt found this letter among the estate s%11 and brought the same content to her children's attention in a distorted manner. The resulting hate is supposed to be the eternal thanks that Franz Goldschmidt assured me in November 1913 over a cup of coffee in the "Passage Cafe" after I had opened the door to his existence - he begged me also wanting to bury the old "old camels". Good-naturedness turned out to be stupid in this case too, - but it doesn't change anything about the Tatyachs, E