Ludwig Goldschmidt, born August 12, 1872. Written down in Stadthagen in November 1935. sZ, Principality of Schaumburg-Lippe in Zurich. My career! Maundy Thursday of the year 1882 stands in my memory. On this day our father said goodbye in order to leave home and his family the following night on Good Friday to take refuge in England. In order to make this escape possible and to keep it secret, which had become necessary, the mother had hidden a number of gold coins in the father's suitcase and in this way made written communication unnecessary for the time being. It was only later that a cousin named Frank in Hanover arranged such a move. The reason for our father's sudden flight lay in unfortunate business circumstances, caused by the collapse of his livelihood and as a result of poorly kept business books, which made it impossible to get an overview of the economic situation. Everything went under the hammer and only the bare essentials were left for the family, which at the time consisted of 6 children, of whom I was the eldest, while the youngest daughter was exactly one year old. What I remember is that my brother Franz was taken over by relatives in Salzgitter, Marcus and Rickchen Goldschmidt, and subsequently went to school there. The reasons why he was taken from the circle of his siblings have always remained unknown to me. Since neither side made funds available for the maintenance of the family - from the mother's eldest brother in Sachsenhagen we were each regularly allocated a quantity of potatoes as food - the municipal poor relief service stepped in for us, where I received a small one every Friday afternoon had to receive a bag with Mark 5 in small coins. A small advertisement was placed in the weekly newspaper by the philanthropic side, the Saalfeld family, asking for charitable donations for an abandoned family of six. I can't remember how successful this appeal was. In any case, it was subsequently possible for my mother to run a small peddling business in coffee, tea, cocoa and chocolate, shipping from Hamburg and making regular deliveries to well-known local families. I was also asked to do practical work. On the free school afternoons I had to trade in kibblelings and sprats and was proud when the contents of a box were sold within a few hours. Since we were always able to offer fresh goods in original crates and brought them into the house of the public, the branch of trade kept growing and fed us modestly. More difficult and less rewarding for me was the task and the care of the younger siblings, for whom I also had to serve as a cook when the mother was away selling. In addition to all these tasks, going to the Realgymnasium required all my very modest physical strength. At the age of 9 1/2 I was a student at Quinta, but I was one of the weakest students there. My performance was below average. In June 1883, after I was able to travel to Hanover with my mother in March of the same year, where we saw my father again when he returned from England, the joyless time in Stadthagen came to an end and we moved to Wolfenbüttel. For reasons that were not known to me at the time, the small wagon with our modest belongings was directed to Hanover by the railway authorities. It was only from here that the address was re-addressed to Wolfenbüttel. I have no reason to attribute the collapse to unfair motives, but rather to youthful careless actions, which consisted in our father's political exposure during the Reichstag elections in the spring of 1881. As an active member he belonged to the German Liberal Party and I have the feeling that financial sacrifices were also made for this purpose. Because during the agitation period, large crates containing whole bacon sides of American pork arrived at the parental home from the USA. English, which was to be of great importance to me later. The school was a big challenge for me at first, because I first had to get used to the new environment and the higher level of difficulty. But over time I got used to it and was able to perform well. In my free time, I enjoy listening to music and playing the piano. Reading books was also one of my favorite pastimes. I particularly enjoy reading adventure novels and stories about distant countries and cultures. All in all, my childhood was characterized by many challenges, but also by beautiful adventures and experiences. I am grateful for my family and the support I received from them. "Latin" - while the Wolfenbüttel Realschule began with French language lessons. The big difference in age and the entrance during the school year was the reason why I was not able to attend the "Samson School". From a young age of weak stature, I could only follow the school lessons with all my strength and energy. If not the first, I was not the last to be promoted to a higher school class every year. The particularly weak performances in mathematics, geometry and algebra had to be made up as best as possible through private lessons. Apart from that, the large amount of learning at the time went fairly smoothly. There were no special incidents during the school years. However, it should not be withheld that my classmate reprimanded my father for being too independent as an unfavorable quality. At the age of 15 I left the secondary school in Wolfenbüttel after completing my tertiary education. Now the question of the profession arose, and traditionally the decision could only be made in commercial activity, after I had to do commercial packing and shipping, registered mail and preparing invoices etc. on free afternoons and Sundays during my school days . It was my mother's wish that I should find accommodation in the Louis Gräfenberg house in Göttingen, after a nephew Paul Fraenkel from Hanover had also completed his apprenticeship there. No one knew any more, and that was unfortunate. On April 20, 1887, my father brought me to Göttingen, handed me over and was an eyewitness to how I was given three arithmetic problems, two of which were solved correctly. A great period of suffering and deprivation began the very next day. I had to write a double contract that regulated the apprenticeship between the company on the one hand and my father and I on the other. In addition to a four-year apprenticeship, my father's right to bring up children was also granted to my teachers. I protested against this paragraph and wrote to my father that I would not stay if he signed the contract and handed me over to the two brothers. A few days later, the contracts in which the ominous paragraph had been deleted were returned. On the other hand, the agreement that apprentices are not allowed to carry pocket money remained the same. An account was to be given of the smallest amount that had to be demanded from the cash register of the shop. The owners of the Louis Gräfenberg company, the brothers Louis and Carl, were known to be strict and ruthless. In the eyes of the commercial employees, the company was considered a "bone mill" and it was. The food in the Carl G. family, where apprentices had to live in the principal's house, was very bad. There was not only too little, but often inedible. Once, every Thursday, there was butter. Otherwise rendered drippings and onions mixed with rapeseed oil. Even the greatest hunger could not eat up the food in the long run. Charity was the only salvation to satisfy the hunger and this was shown in the person of the old cook to whom I confessed my ailments. Every evening there was one or two sandwiches and a few apples between the pillow and the mattress of my primitive camp. The less food there was, the greater the demands on work performance. From 5 a.m. until late at night, from the end of July to December, it rarely ended before 10 a.m. I endured more than 2 years with my weak constitution. Then came stomach problems and, as a result of the malnutrition, a curvature of the spine, which led to the termination of all activities in June 1889. Sick and miserable, I went to my parents' house after I had been granted a 6-month vacation. I owe the recovery only to the loving care of my mother. The curvature of the spine could not be cured and doctors and lawyers were of the opinion that a return to employment was out of the question. Father threatened to sue the Gräfenberg company. But all that remained was a violent cannonade of correspondence and the severing of all relationships. The future looked rather bleak and bleak for me as the proprietors refused to provide me with a certificate or any other form of certification. In the meantime I had turned 18, helpless and helpless, half a cripple. In 1860 I had regained my strength to such an extent that the sense of work was reawakened and new confidence was gained. I tried to travel on my own and achieve success. The attempt was successful in a town, Burgdorf near Börssum, where I had gained a good clientele that I constantly served. I received food and clothing for my work in my father's business, but nothing else. No pocket money, going to the theater or other intellectual distractions were out of the question. Visiting an inn was forbidden, and there was no question of playing cards or smoking. In the spring of 1891, my physical condition had improved, a new zest for action awoke and behind my father's back I looked for a new job, ie a new beginning of the apprenticeship I had broken off. In my project I found the support of my mother, who was a good guiding star to me throughout her life, and I have her to thank for these good qualities beyond the grave. I succeeded in the house of N. Gottschalk, Herzogl. Hoflieferant, Bernburg, to get a volunteer position with a monthly salary of 50 marks. The engagement letter read, among other things (I didn't have a certificate): "I'm hiring you out of consideration for the teaching in the house of Louis Gräfenberg, which I know." I had set myself a large-scale arithmetic task: to live and live on 50 marks a month. I couldn't get anything from home if my mother hadn't made a few marks a month free for me. But I paid for everything with 60 marks (living room with coffee costs 12 marks per month). Nothing was left for me. At the same time, an apprenticeship fee of 200 marks a year had to be paid for my brother Franz, who was doing his commercial apprenticeship in Hildesheim. He was the only one of all the siblings for whom every sacrifice was made. During their apprenticeship, my brothers Franz and Harry had pensions outside the home, ie not with the boss, as was common at the time. I stayed in Bernburg for a year. During this time there was a Christmas present of 10 marks and a monthly allowance of the same amount. Then one day Gottschalk senior called me. to tell me I could earn more as a result, but he couldn't give more. But he would help me to find a new job. But I didn't have to take advantage of his friendly offer. Because of my correct handwriting, at the age of 20 I got the job of a young bookkeeper at the company M. Stern, Offenbach, with a starting salary of 1000 marks or 83.33 marks per month. This amount was never rounded up. Sickness and disability benefit was still deducted. Southern Germany had always been my wish and my hope. Now I was happy when I crossed the Main in the 4th class passenger train for the first time in the evening at sunset. For us boys from northern Germany, beyond the Maine meant "freedom and coziness", and I was honestly starving for it. I had to cover everything with this princely monthly salary. In addition to livelihood, clothing and laundry, there are also shoes and other needs. I could only arrange for a second breakfast on 6 days a month. The first 3 days there was a warm sausage (0.15 marks), then only a roll and the rest of the time - nothing. If I had put everything into the second breakfast, it would not have been possible to go to the opera in Frankfurt on Sunday. For this, 3 marks including coffee and dinner had to be put on the high edge. For a rump steak or Viennese roast beef with fried potatoes in Frankfurt plus a pint of beer - together for 1.20 marks - people starved the rest of the time. But that was just beautiful and carefree. After 6 months there was already M.I00,- then M.I20.- plus a free room and now there was the opportunity to be able to eat one's fill to one's heart's content and to design the wardrobe "Frankfurter", no longer as cosmopolitan as it was in the north was the case. Humor and love of life had returned and all bitterness had been forgotten, but the threatening storm was already looming. With his strictness, the father complained about the lack of thrift. I had eaten my fill and dressed myself, but he didn't want to accept that. My brother Franz, who had also been in Frankfurt since 1893, starved even more with boiled cow meat, but it was strictly kosher. He came to Offenbach twice a week and ate the Offenbach rump steaks at my expense. For this he saved M.I0.- monthly, which he reported triumphantly to his father. Instead, I was accused of not being able to calculate and that my future would be dark. 5th sheet After a year's work in Frankfurt, Brother Franz turned his back on this city, not without his boss, Mr. D. Cohn, dismissing him with the words that he had made a mistake while I remained in Offenbach until October 1894. The monotonous job, first as an accountant, then as a salesman, didn't sit well with me in the long run, all the more so since sales were almost exclusively related to the "made-to-measure men's clothing" department. The clientele for the same had to be visited regularly with collections or, as they said in Frankfurt, "with the sample card", while on the other hand sales were achieved through travelers to the retail trade. Friends suggested that I join the newly founded company in the manufactured goods sector, Mainzer & Bruckfeld, in Hanau. I followed this advice, but found no lasting satisfaction. The company hired me on the condition that I should be able to "break into" the clientele of my previous company. The attempt ended in a fiasco and a deterioration of previous sympathies. After barely 1 year of work, I left this time without notice to end up in Würzburg in a roundabout way. During a visit to my new company S. Rosenthal and when I joined, the head of the company explained to me that there was already a letter from my last company in Hanau, according to which they asked me to be dismissed immediately because I would leave the position without notice have. After explaining the reasons for my actions, I stayed with the company that hired me as a salesman for women's clothing fabrics and for the trip. This latter activity was intended to fill the so-called idle time during the quiet business months of January through mid-March and July through mid-September of each year. I had to share this obligation with some colleagues and each of us was given his specific delimited area. I received Middle and Upper Franconia, Swabia/Neuburg and the adjacent eastern part of Württemberg. When I compared the results I had achieved with those achieved by my former colleagues for the M. Stern company in Offenbach, mine could be called more than "modest" and yet they were twice as great as those of my predecessor. The company was happy, unfortunately I wasn't. The intensive travel increased the fixed expenses. I had to increase my salary, all the more so because my first hotels were prescribed and 95 kilos of luggage were tied to collections. I tried a second tour in the opinion that I could make use of the experience and catch up with what I had lost. This was partially successful, but on balance a great disappointment remained. With these disappointments I had also lost the desire to experiment further. I wrote my brother Franz to M. Gladbach, telling him that the manufactured goods wholesale company Adolf & Beo Stern had approached me to establish myself. It was the time of the boom, start-ups grew like mushrooms out of the ground and Franz wrote me his willingness. Since I didn't have enough funds, I asked him to help and he sent 300 marks. I made various trips for the purpose of negotiations, advertising etc. and when the contracts were about to be concluded, the above-named company went into liquidation. New disappointments and a few hundred marks had been lost. Despondent, I packed my belongings and headed home, without a job and without money. After I had recovered and strengthened myself for a few weeks, a Würzburg cloth shipping company offered to hire me for their existing travel tours with a monthly salary of 300 marks. I accepted, but it turned out that the company was completely unknown and far from being a real company. After a few weeks I sent the collection back, received my salary and, with a capital sum of 200 marks, I traveled to my friends in Nuremberg in the belief that I would soon find another job, all the more so since at that time I was in In the summer of 1896 the great Bavarian State Exhibition took place. I found a traveling position at the Oettinger house in Nuremberg, Tuche wholesale, but no customers whom I had to visit. Armed with an advance on expenses, I went out with an autumn collection in September and people laughed at me. In Frankfurt I was told that the new spring collections are expected in the next few days. I reported this to my company in Nuremberg and some "novelties" were then sent to me. The good man, on the basis of recommendations, believed that I must be a so-called demigod in sales and be able to free him from his old camp. With the "small" collection I was only able to reach "small" people and they were not "great" enough. In short, after about 3 weeks of travel time, I was in Koblenz, I received the notification to return. Happy and single, I went "south", also across the Main again, but depressed about what was to come. But one thing was certain: travel, no, never travel again unless the company is first class and established. In October I returned to Nuremberg and met an elderly lady who ran my father's business high up in the Franconian Forest. She also had two younger sisters, of whom she spoke highly. The conclusion was "marriage". My friends talked me into it and I decided to visit a few months later. Everything was prepared because I was invited as a guest. Was it coincidence or coincidence? I left again without having said a word. I stayed in correspondence with the younger sister for many months, but I was not able to take the decisive step forward. Invisible hands held me back. At this point I had already landed in Konstanz in November 1896. I had to act quickly because the M. Schneider company, headquartered in Aschaffenburg, which was expanding at the time, opened its branches in many cities in southern Germany and brought about a revolution in sales practice by the standards of the time. I was given the task of helping the Emil Heim company get going. The company's turnover had dropped enormously in view of the new competition. I went to work with a real workaholism and completely reorganized the entire company in order to create contemporary conditions. I managed to at least stop the setbacks. In the following year, 1897, sales slowly picked up again, but they never reached their original level. In the autumn of 1898 I was approached with the intention of taking over the management of a branch. The opportunity arose to purchase the manufactured goods business previously run by S. Pikard in Säckingen or to rent his premises. A contract was concluded between me and my boss, the author of which was Dr. Bloch was in Constance. I expressly mention the author's name, since the contract could be described as downright "diabolical". It contained the passage: "Mr. G. is entitled to withdraw the amount of M.200.00 from the cash register each month to meet his needs." At the beginning of September 1898 I opened the branch in Säckingen. The prices for the sale were legible for everyone and there were modern window displays and advertisements. Due to the cash sale, a low calculation was possible and success came. In the first year, in a town of 3,000 people, the turnover reached over RM 60,000 at a rent of RM 1,200. An inventory was taken at the end of July of the following year. My boss demanded a uniform depreciation of 25% from purchases, which I resisted. However, my appeal was in vain because, on the advice of my father, I had waived an entry in the commercial register. This made me a commercial agent with no say in the matter. The result was a net profit of RM 3,000, which I had to share with my boss under the contract. For my work and responsibility, I should legally only have received M. 1,125 per month. The contractual right to "take" M. 200 was not considered fixed property. As a result of an infection that was inflicted on me at the Ruesch hairdresser in Säckingen, I suffered from a severe skin condition, which was treated incorrectly in Säckingen and later in Basel. It extended over a period of 6 months and only took place in the spring of 1899 through the treatment of Prof. Jacobi in Freiburg/B. Improvement. However, the consequences of this condition stayed with me throughout my life and are considered to be the result of my later asthmatic condition. I had to pay for the lengthy treatment myself because I could not cover it with my income. The result was that I owed my company about 2,200 marks due to the interpretation of the contract when I had to give up the position in the fall of 1899. Since I threatened to sue, the sum was reduced to M. 1,300. Over the next 4 years, I had to pay back this sum, which was solely for my recovery, in installments. I left Constance in strife. The business in Säckingen did not survive long and went under before the end of another year. My friends from Freund & Cie. menswear advised me to take over their Ettlingen branch, a wreck with many obligations, as they had two similar businesses in place, each under a different flag. It was impossible to get this business wreck back on its feet, since I was forbidden to advertise. Miracles were expected of me, which I could not fulfill. Since there was a deficit at the end of the year, the long-standing friendship got a hole. This rift was artificially deepened by the cooperation of my friend's wife, since her own interests in favor of her brother were at stake. This former Jewish religion teacher became a clothing manufacturer and took my place. I was immediately able to get a job again and went to Limburg/Lahn in November 1900 as a salesman and traveller. The circumstances were primitive, but they were real. I would have stayed too, perhaps married the slightly hard of hearing but otherwise well "founded" daughter, but people were suspicious when I asked for a vacation one day. My sister Emma was suffering from diphtheria in Frankfurt at the time, and I wanted to look around for her. My young boss believed in an excuse to get away from him and when I returned he gave me the alternative. I was very upset about this and resigned from my "promising" position. I even rejected an intervention by his mother-in-law. I went to Mannheim to Emil Helfft, whose Yattin was a née Silberschmidt from Augsburg. It was the man with the big plans and the narrow pedestal. The Emil Helfft company in Mannheim was in constant trouble, so I decided to leave as soon as possible. Despite the advice of my friends, I decided to accept a position at Baum & Rothschild in Weilburg/Lahn. The owners of this company enjoyed the dubious reputation of great Chinanovians. With my committed attitude, I hoped to break the crest of any argument in the first place. I had to admit afterwards, these people were real artists in their field. They invented and came up with the most crooked ways imaginable and did not shy away from slander or brutality. Although I asked for my immediate release as a result of defamation, they withheld my salary and demanded that I continue to travel. I went and found myself near Altenkirchen in the Westerwald. There I handed over my statement to a lawyer along with the debt collection after deducting my salary by the end of the coming month, as well as my sample case and said “goodbye” in writing. I stayed with a friend in Frankfurt for a few weeks, fell ill with severe furunculosis, and in this condition preferred to travel to Braunschweig, where my father lived with a sister, Sofi, I think. In treatment by Dr. Sternthal I was restored a few weeks later and now I remembered. As I was unpacking my suitcase, I accidentally came across an older letter from S. Lippmann, Basel, that this gentleman had been wanting to hire me for one of his Swiss companies since 1898 - we wrote as early as 1902. If I'm ever free, the content read, may I get in touch. I was free against my will, and so I registered in a letter to Basel. After just a few days, the notification came in, although nothing was available at the moment, he saw my renewed application as a certain fate and if I wanted to be content with CHF 175 per month, I should leave. On the morning of April 1, 1902, I arrived at the Bad Bahnhof Basel with the same feelings that I had felt ten years earlier when I saw the city of Frankfurt and the Main. This time I crossed the Rhine. Here in Basel things were good for me, although I was only partially satisfied with my job. I got by on my modest income, I was able to pay my taxes regularly and since I had to alternately visit and decorate the branches in Zurich and Lucerne for 10 days, I lived on business expenses during this time. I particularly liked Lucerne, not only because of its location, but above all because of its traffic during the spring and summer months. I realized that here - with the exception of a maximum of 2 months (January, February) - an annual deal was to be made. In addition, the existing manufacturing companies were so modestly set up and so expensive that I already saw my hopes of a livelihood fulfilled in the distance. After my experiences I had grown tired of "conditioning". In addition, I had reached the age of 30 and longed for work of my own accord. In November 1902 I approached Mr. Lippmann to buy my colleague Julius Einhorn's branch in Lucerne, since it was running at a loss under the previous management. The sale went perfectly under the condition that we had to take over the business as it stood, ie with assets and liabilities. Unfortunately, the latter were more vulnerable than I initially thought due to losses in accounts receivable and inventory. Obtaining the payments became difficult in the years that followed, and this is where I made a big mistake. Out of exaggerated conscientiousness, I refrained from reaching an early agreement on a 50% basis with the main creditor, S. Lippmann. He still got off better than if he had been forced to liquidate his company in Lucerne. Sheet 9 The business situation at Kasernenplatz in Lucerne was not very good - too exposed and away from the actual traffic. Despite this, I succeeded in doubling the previous year's turnover achieved under the S. Lippmann company. When the opportunity presented itself at the beginning of 1904 to rent a salesroom on Weggisgasse, albeit one that had been badly neglected, I used my influence to do so. The rent was CHF 2,600 pa and at the beginning of April we opened a sales branch, which my pillion passenger Einhorn took over. The business continued to grow in importance, but on the other hand the tension between me and my pillion increased. His personal consumption far exceeded the agreed withdrawals and endangered the existence of our young company. We decided to separate. In the autumn of the same year I was able to get married. Until further notice, ie from September to February of the following year, I managed both businesses. But then my brother Harry came from Braunschweig and took over the management of Weggisgasse. At the same time, the decorations in both shops. My wedding was attended only by brother Harry. On his return journey, he expressed his wish to be able to be in Switzerland afterwards. I was able to fulfill this wish a few months later. In the spring of 1908, the rental contract for Kasernenplatz expired and was not renewed. In the meantime, the house at Weggisgasse 32 had changed hands and it was uncertain whether the contract would be continued. For this reason, a bar at Pfistergasse 15 (Haus Baer-Weber) was rented. This lease soon turned out to be a failure. Sales went down. Besides, the homeowner's neighborhood was unpleasant and harmful in every respect. The decision to amicably terminate the rental agreement matured. The homeowner objected to this and so a lawsuit ensued. The costs and compensation amounted to around CHF 10,000 for me. The restaurant remained closed for 18 months and I finally moved to Weggisgasse after a 10-year lease had been signed. Brother Harry left and later found accommodation with the Gebrüder Loeb AG company in Bern, where he remained until the spring of 1911. As a result, all material and physical forces were combined and concentrated solely on the "Weggisgasse" company. The advantages soon became apparent: sales increased rapidly and in 1909 reached around CHF 116,000. The rooms turned out to be too small and unhealthy. In the spring of 1910, with the help of the homeowner, Mr. J. Haefliger, the first conversion took place, which also included the first floor for business purposes. The rent was increased to CHF 7,800 pa and in the following years the turnover reached the second hundred thousand. In 1913 it was CHF 2,015,700. In those years the only concern was getting the necessary goods. A Swiss market for ready-made clothing did not yet exist at that time. All goods had to be sourced from abroad. Up until 1906, the customs duty on woolen women's clothing was CHF 90 per 100 kilos, for cotton clothing CHF 45 per 100 kilos. Later it was CHF 150 or CHF 90. I viewed collections from various Berlin clothing manufacturers in St. Ludwig and there was the condition that other Swiss companies were not allowed to be supplied. This was based on a minimum quantity on the one hand and on the other hand a so-called price protection of competitiveness. Purchasing occupied me completely, since at that time the summer months from May up to and including August were the busiest business months and we constantly required new samples. Sales were not officially allowed in Lucerne at the time. So-called cheap sales were also forbidden. I always maintained good relationships with my siblings and encouraged and supported them as much as I could. Brother Franz, who in January 1903 described my establishment in Lucerne as a careless and irresponsible act, made an exception in the good relations. Even later, on the occasion of my engagement and marriage, he took on an unfriendly and hateful attitude. He neither answered the letter of introduction from my fiancé at the time, nor did he subsequently give in. On the contrary, he made the three sisters follow his attitude, which also happened with the exception of sister Emma. The sisters later gave in, but he remained consistently intolerant until November 1913. By that time his circumstances in Cologne had deteriorated so much that he had been living with his family without a livelihood for several months. His brother Harry took care of him and made him come to Switzerland to look for a livelihood and, if possible, to find one. At that time I had no idea of these intentions as I was not informed by either side. It was only through an indiscretion by my sister-in-law Selma Fränkl in St. Gallen that I found out about my brother F.'s presence in St. Gallen. One day Mr. David Neuburger appeared in Lucerne for a visit. I anticipated his intentions and declined any conversation over the phone. It was only after repeated requests from my wife that I was willing to listen to his request, which was to stand up for my brother F. I refused with reference to his previously practiced unfriendly and hateful manner towards my family. Nor did his character give me any guarantee that he would subsequently create a pleasant and beneficial relationship. The joint processing by my wife and Mr. D. Neuburger took more than 2 hours to make me "more inclined". Unfortunately, I became weak and the raid succeeded. From that hour on, the silent sufferings began, from which I had to perish spiritually. A work started with great hopes and a livelihood built up with a lot of diligence and work was systematically undermined. I want to go into the general developments during the war years in Lucerne. During the years 1914-1916 sales fell by half. Losses occurred, which were compensated to some extent in the following years. But as a result of currency devaluation, worries increased and hard struggle brought. Only the German years of inflation brought temporary relief. As a result, the lack of working capital on the one hand and the intensified competition due to start-ups and expansions on the other hand persisted. In order not to fall completely behind, I played the last trump card out of desperation and had my business premises enlarged again in the winter of 1921/22 through conversion. Sales increased from CHF 360,000 to CHF 480,000 in 1920/21 and remained at around CHF 500,000 until autumn 1923. Suddenly an elementary decline set in, the course of which I could never explain. I was only left to guesswork. The extent to which these could be based on facts must remain a guess forever, since the initiators and instigators do not want to have their say. Accusations, self-incriminations, illnesses and slander have created more destructive power and the result was mental, physical and material collapse. Poor, battered and disappointed, I end my life without any hope of recognition or thanks. Learning from human mistakes and shortcomings is the purpose of my writing. May it guide my children and grandchildren. Beware of false traditions. A final word on this: Our father warned us as adults never to have ourselves entered in a commercial register. He hadn't said why. I researched. My brother Franz obeyed. i knew why He had to be officially requested to register in Zurich. After his death, a repetition of this misrepresented tradition.